packages/website/docs/crawler.mdx, before:

---
title: DocSearch x Algolia Crawler
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

If you're not finding the answer to your question on this website, this page will help you. If you're still unsure, don't hesitate to send [your question to us][1] directly.

You can also read our [Crawler FAQ](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq), to understand how it behaves:

- [One of my pages was not crawled](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq/#one-of-my-pages-was-not-crawled)
- [Why are my pages skipped?](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq/#when-are-pages-skipped-or-ignored)

For questions related to the DocSearch program, please see our [DocSearch program FAQ](/docs/DocSearch-program).

## How often will you crawl my website?

Crawls are scheduled at a random time once a week. You can [configure this schedule from the config file](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/schedule/) or trigger one manually from [the Crawler interface][2].

## Why do I have duplicate content in my results?

This can happen when you have more than one URL pointing to the same content, for example with `./docs`, `./docs/` and `./docs/index.html`.

We recommend configuring canonical URLs on your website, you can read more on the ["Consolidate duplicate URLs" guide by Google](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/consolidate-duplicate-urls).

Ultimately, it is possible to set set the [`exclusionPatterns`](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/exclusion-patterns/) to all the patterns you want to exclude.

## Are the [`docsearch-scraper`](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) and [`docsearch-configs`](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs) repository still maintained?

We've deprecated our legacy infrastructure, but you can still use it to [run your own instance](/docs/legacy/run-your-own) and plug it to [DocSearch v3](/docs/DocSearch-v3)!

## How to migrate

> Every owners should have received a migration email from `docsearch@algolia.com` with the details. If you were not part of the previous `index` owners, or the maintainer has changed, you can request access via [our support page](https://www.algolia.com/support/).

All the steps are detailed in the email you've received, but in order to use the new infrastructure you need to:

- Join the Algolia application with the invite included in the email
- Update your frontend integration with the credentials received in the email.

<Tabs
  groupId="language"
  defaultValue="js"
  values={[
    { label: 'JavaScript', value: 'js', },
    { label: 'React', value: 'react', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="js">

```js app.js
docsearch({
  container: '#docsearch',
  appId: 'YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_APP_ID',
  apiKey: 'YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_API_KEY',
  indexName: 'YOUR_INDEX_NAME', // it does not change
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="react">

```jsx App.js
<DocSearch
  appId="YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_APP_ID"
  apiKey="YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_API_KEY"
  indexName="YOUR_INDEX_NAME" // it does not change
/>
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## What should I do with my legacy config and credentials?

You can forget about them, we will do the cleaning once all of our users have migrated to the new infrastructure!

You should use [the dedicated web interface][2] to make any changes to your index.

## Why do I see two Algolia apps in my dashboard?

We did not remove access to the legacy DocSearch application (`BH4D9OD16A`) to give you the time to get familiar with our new infrastructure. `BH4D9OD16A` will remain available until the migration has been completed for all the DocSearch users.

## Search yield no results

If your search does not yield any results, but there is no error in [your browser developer tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/What_are_browser_developer_tools), there might be an issue with your index.

Make sure that:

1. [Your Crawler config](/docs/record-extractor) matches your website structure

We provide [config templates](/docs/templates) for many website generators, but you can also use them as a base. To debug your selectors, we recommend using [the URL tester](/docs/manage-your-crawls/#url-tester).

2. Your index settings are up to date (you'll see a banner in [the search preview](/docs/manage-your-crawls/#search-preview) if not)

The Crawler only applies `index settings` at index creation index, to keep the Algolia dashboard as the source of truth. If you have drastically changed your config, or moved to a website generator, we recommend you to delete your index from the Algolia dashboard before starting a new crawl.

## Can I delete my crawler?

No. Well, you can but once you do things will not work correctly. We automatically create a default crawler that is associated with your DocSearch application and deleting it with the intention of creating a new one will not work as expected.

## What if I delete my DocSearch Crawler?

The fastest way will be to connect with us on our [Discord](https://alg.li/discord). Alternatively, email us at the address below and we will get to it as soon as we can.

## Links related to the migration

- [Docusaurus blog post](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/11/21/algolia-docsearch-migration)
- [Algolia Dev chat 11-23-2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htsjpojpKtc&t=2404s)

[1]: mailto:docsearch@algolia.com
[2]: https://crawler.algolia.com/

Commit message:

fix(email): docsearch@algolia.com is being retired (#2280)
This is a change by support (this email goes to support and automatically creates a ticket), support is no longer accepting ticket creation via email. Replacing with links to Discord or proper support site. More info can be found at https://algolia.atlassian.net/browse/ZA-268

packages/website/docs/crawler.mdx, after:

---
title: DocSearch x Algolia Crawler
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

If you're not finding the answer to your question on this website, this page will help you. If you're still unsure, don't hesitate to connect with us on [Discord][1] or let our [support][3] team know.

You can also read our [Crawler FAQ](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq), to understand how it behaves:

- [One of my pages was not crawled](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq/#one-of-my-pages-was-not-crawled)
- [Why are my pages skipped?](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/troubleshooting/faq/#when-are-pages-skipped-or-ignored)

For questions related to the DocSearch program, please see our [DocSearch program FAQ](/docs/DocSearch-program).

## How often will you crawl my website?

Crawls are scheduled at a random time once a week. You can [configure this schedule from the config file](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/schedule/) or trigger one manually from [the Crawler interface][2].

## Why do I have duplicate content in my results?

This can happen when you have more than one URL pointing to the same content, for example with `./docs`, `./docs/` and `./docs/index.html`.

We recommend configuring canonical URLs on your website, you can read more on the ["Consolidate duplicate URLs" guide by Google](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/consolidate-duplicate-urls).

Ultimately, it is possible to set set the [`exclusionPatterns`](https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/exclusion-patterns/) to all the patterns you want to exclude.

## Are the [`docsearch-scraper`](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) and [`docsearch-configs`](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs) repository still maintained?

We've deprecated our legacy infrastructure, but you can still use it to [run your own instance](/docs/legacy/run-your-own) and plug it to [DocSearch v3](/docs/DocSearch-v3)!

## How to migrate

> Every owners should have received a migration email from Algolia with the details. If you were not part of the previous `index` owners, or the maintainer has changed, you can request access via [our support page](https://www.algolia.com/support/).

All the steps are detailed in the email you've received, but in order to use the new infrastructure you need to:

- Join the Algolia application with the invite included in the email
- Update your frontend integration with the credentials received in the email.

<Tabs
  groupId="language"
  defaultValue="js"
  values={[
    { label: 'JavaScript', value: 'js', },
    { label: 'React', value: 'react', }
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="js">

```js app.js
docsearch({
  container: '#docsearch',
  appId: 'YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_APP_ID',
  apiKey: 'YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_API_KEY',
  indexName: 'YOUR_INDEX_NAME', // it does not change
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="react">

```jsx App.js
<DocSearch
  appId="YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_APP_ID"
  apiKey="YOUR_NEW_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_API_KEY"
  indexName="YOUR_INDEX_NAME" // it does not change
/>
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## What should I do with my legacy config and credentials?

You can forget about them, we will do the cleaning once all of our users have migrated to the new infrastructure!

You should use [the dedicated web interface][2] to make any changes to your index.

## Why do I see two Algolia apps in my dashboard?

We did not remove access to the legacy DocSearch application (`BH4D9OD16A`) to give you the time to get familiar with our new infrastructure. `BH4D9OD16A` will remain available until the migration has been completed for all the DocSearch users.

## Search yield no results

If your search does not yield any results, but there is no error in [your browser developer tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/What_are_browser_developer_tools), there might be an issue with your index.

Make sure that:

1. [Your Crawler config](/docs/record-extractor) matches your website structure

We provide [config templates](/docs/templates) for many website generators, but you can also use them as a base. To debug your selectors, we recommend using [the URL tester](/docs/manage-your-crawls/#url-tester).

2. Your index settings are up to date (you'll see a banner in [the search preview](/docs/manage-your-crawls/#search-preview) if not)

The Crawler only applies `index settings` at index creation index, to keep the Algolia dashboard as the source of truth. If you have drastically changed your config, or moved to a website generator, we recommend you to delete your index from the Algolia dashboard before starting a new crawl.

## Can I delete my crawler?

No. Well, you can but once you do things will not work correctly. We automatically create a default crawler that is associated with your DocSearch application and deleting it with the intention of creating a new one will not work as expected.

## What if I delete my DocSearch Crawler?

The fastest way will be to connect with us on our [Discord](https://alg.li/discord). Alternatively, email us at the address below and we will get to it as soon as we can.

## Links related to the migration

- [Docusaurus blog post](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/11/21/algolia-docsearch-migration)
- [Algolia Dev chat 11-23-2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htsjpojpKtc&t=2404s)

[1]: https://alg.li/discord
[2]: https://crawler.algolia.com/
[3]: https://support.algolia.com/
