packages/website/docs/migrating-from-legacy.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating from the legacy scraper
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Introduction

With the new version of the [DocSearch UI][1], we wanted to go further and provide better tooling for you to create and maintain your config file, and some extra Algolia features that you all have been requesting for a long time!

## What's new?

### Scraper

The DocSearch infrastructure now leverages the [Algolia Crawler][2]. We've teamed up with our friends and created a new [DocSearch helper][4], that extracts records as we were previously doing with our beloved [DocSearch scraper][3]!

The best part, is that you no longer need to install any tooling on your side if you want to maintain or update your index!

We now provide [a web interface][7] that will allow you to:

- Start, schedule and monitor your crawls
- Edit your config file from our live editor
- Test your results directly with [DocSearch v3][1]

### Algolia application and credentials

We've received a lot of requests asking for:

- A way to manage team members
- Browse and see how Algolia records are indexed
- See and subscribe to other Algolia features

They are now all available, in **your own Algolia application**, for free :D

## FAQ

You can find answers related to the DocSearch migration in our [Crawler FAQ page](/docs/crawler).

### Useful links

- [Docusaurus blog post](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/11/21/algolia-docsearch-migration)
- [Algolia Dev chat 11-23-2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htsjpojpKtc&t=2404s)

## Config file key mapping

Below are the keys that can be found in the [`legacy` DocSearch configs][14] and their translation to an [Algolia Crawler config][16]. More detailed documentation of the Algolia Crawler can be found on the [the official documentation][15]

| `legacy` | `current` | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `start_urls` | [`startUrls`][20] | Now accepts URLs only, see [`helpers.docsearch`][30] to handle custom variables |
| `page_rank` | [`pageRank`][31] | Can be added to the `recordProps` in [`helpers.docsearch`][30], should be passed as a **string** |
| `js_render` | [`renderJavaScript`][21] | Unchanged |
| `js_wait` | [`renderJavascript.waitTime`][22] | See documentation of [`renderJavaScript`][21] |
| `index_name` | **removed**, see [`actions`][23] | Handled directly in the [`actions`][23] |
| `sitemap_urls` | [`sitemaps`][24] | Unchanged |
| `stop_urls` | [`exclusionPatterns`][25] | Supports [`micromatch`][27] |
| `selectors_exclude` | **removed** | Should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |
| `custom_settings` | [`initialIndexSettings`][26] | Unchanged |
| `scrape_start_urls` | **removed** | Can be handled with [`exclusionPatterns`][25] |
| `strip_chars` | **removed** | `#` are removed automatically from anchor links, edge cases should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |
| `conversation_id` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `nb_hits` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `sitemap_alternate_links` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `stop_content` | **removed** | Should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |

[1]: /docs/docsearch-v3
[2]: https://www.algolia.com/products/search-and-discovery/crawler/
[3]: /docs/legacy/run-your-own
[4]: /docs/record-extractor
[7]: https://crawler.algolia.com/
[14]: /docs/legacy/config-file
[15]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/getting-started/overview/
[16]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/
[20]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/start-urls/
[21]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/render-java-script/
[22]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/render-java-script/#parameter-param-waittime
[23]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/actions/#parameter-param-indexname
[24]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/sitemaps/
[25]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/exclusion-patterns/
[26]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/initial-index-settings/
[27]: https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch
[28]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/actions/#parameter-param-recordextractor
[29]: /docs/record-extractor
[30]: /docs/record-extractor#introduction
[31]: /docs/record-extractor#pagerank

Commit message:

feat(docsearch-website): Updated docs (#2662)

packages/website/docs/migrating-from-legacy.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating from the legacy scraper
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Introduction

With the new version of the [DocSearch UI][1], we wanted to go further and provide better tooling for you to create and maintain your config file, and some extra Algolia features that you all have been requesting for a long time!

## What's new?

### Scraper

The DocSearch infrastructure now leverages the [Algolia Crawler][2]. We've teamed up with our friends and created a new [DocSearch helper][4], that extracts records as we were previously doing with our beloved [DocSearch scraper][3]!

The best part, is that you no longer need to install any tooling on your side if you want to maintain or update your index!

We now provide a web interface **[legacy][7]** or **[new](https://dashboard.algolia.com/crawler)** that will allow you to:

- Start, schedule and monitor your crawls
- Edit your config file from our live editor
- Test your results directly with [DocSearch v3][1] or [DocSearch v4][32]

### Algolia application and credentials

We've received a lot of requests asking for:

- A way to manage team members
- Browse and see how Algolia records are indexed
- See and subscribe to other Algolia features

They are now all available, in **your own Algolia application**, for free :D

## FAQ

You can find answers related to the DocSearch migration in our [Crawler FAQ page](/docs/crawler).

### Useful links

- [Docusaurus blog post](https://docusaurus.io/blog/2021/11/21/algolia-docsearch-migration)
- [Algolia Dev chat 11-23-2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htsjpojpKtc&t=2404s)

## Config file key mapping

Below are the keys that can be found in the [`legacy` DocSearch configs][14] and their translation to an [Algolia Crawler config][16]. More detailed documentation of the Algolia Crawler can be found on the [the official documentation][15]

| `legacy` | `current` | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `start_urls` | [`startUrls`][20] | Now accepts URLs only, see [`helpers.docsearch`][30] to handle custom variables |
| `page_rank` | [`pageRank`][31] | Can be added to the `recordProps` in [`helpers.docsearch`][30], should be passed as a **string** |
| `js_render` | [`renderJavaScript`][21] | Unchanged |
| `js_wait` | [`renderJavascript.waitTime`][22] | See documentation of [`renderJavaScript`][21] |
| `index_name` | **removed**, see [`actions`][23] | Handled directly in the [`actions`][23] |
| `sitemap_urls` | [`sitemaps`][24] | Unchanged |
| `stop_urls` | [`exclusionPatterns`][25] | Supports [`micromatch`][27] |
| `selectors_exclude` | **removed** | Should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |
| `custom_settings` | [`initialIndexSettings`][26] | Unchanged |
| `scrape_start_urls` | **removed** | Can be handled with [`exclusionPatterns`][25] |
| `strip_chars` | **removed** | `#` are removed automatically from anchor links, edge cases should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |
| `conversation_id` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `nb_hits` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `sitemap_alternate_links` | **removed** | Not needed anymore |
| `stop_content` | **removed** | Should be handled in the [`recordExtractor`][28] and [`helpers.docsearch`][29] |

[1]: /docs/docsearch-v3
[2]: https://www.algolia.com/products/search-and-discovery/crawler/
[3]: /docs/legacy/run-your-own
[4]: /docs/record-extractor
[7]: https://crawler.algolia.com/
[14]: /docs/legacy/config-file
[15]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/getting-started/overview/
[16]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/
[20]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/start-urls/
[21]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/render-java-script/
[22]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/render-java-script/#parameter-param-waittime
[23]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/actions/#parameter-param-indexname
[24]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/sitemaps/
[25]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/exclusion-patterns/
[26]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/initial-index-settings/
[27]: https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch
[28]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/tools/crawler/apis/configuration/actions/#parameter-param-recordextractor
[29]: /docs/record-extractor
[30]: /docs/record-extractor#introduction
[31]: /docs/record-extractor#pagerank
[32]: /docs/v4
