packages/website/docs/who-can-apply.md, before:

---
title: Who can apply?
---

**Open for all developer documentation and technical blogs.**

We built DocSearch from the ground up with the idea of improving search on large technical documentations. For this reason, we are offering a free hosting version to all online technical documentations and technical blogs.

We usually turn down applications when they are not production ready or have non-technical content on the website.

## The checklist

To have your request validated, we’ll ask that you check all the following points.

- Your website must be a **technical documentation or a technical blog**.

- You must be the **owner** of the website, or at least have the permissions to update its content. You'll need to [include a JavaScript snippet][1] to your frontend to implement DocSearch.

- Your website must be **publicly available**. We do not host search indices for websites that are only available after authentication or are hosted on a private network.

- Your website must be **production ready**. We won't index empty websites nor those filled with placeholder content. Please, wait until you have written some documentation before applying. We would be happy to help you as soon as you have a steady design.

If in doubt, don't hesitate to [apply][2] and we'll figure it out together.

Even if we cannot accept your request, this does not mean that you cannot enjoy great search on your website. Legacy DocSearch is entirely open source and [you can run it yourself][3], or use any of [our other API clients][4] to take advantage of Algolia's features.

## Priority

We're receiving dozens of requests every day, and while we strive to answer them all as fast as we can, we sometimes give priority to some based on the following criteria:

- 🙂 If you're using one of our [official integrations][5], creating your config will be much faster for us.

- 🙁 If we need to render your website in the browser through JavaScript, it means that we'll have to crawl it through a much slower browser emulation. We highly recommend that you put in place server-side rendering for the useful textual content.

## Process duration

As stated in [the priority section](#priority), we receive a lot of requests every day. To ensure they all match [our checklist](#the-checklist), we manually review each of them, which means it can take a bit of time before you get an answer from us.

The full process (from application to deployment) can take **up to two weeks**, applying multiple times or opening issues **only slows the process**, please be patient 🙏.

[1]: /docs/docsearch-v3
[2]: /apply
[3]: /docs/legacy/run-your-own
[4]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-client/getting-started/install/javascript/?client=javascript
[5]: integrations.md

Commit message:

feat(v4): Docsearch who can apply updated page

packages/website/docs/who-can-apply.md, after:

---
title: Who can apply?
---

**Open for all developer documentation and technical blogs.**

We built DocSearch from the ground up with the idea of improving search on large technical documentations. For this reason, we are offering a free hosting version to all online technical documentations and technical blogs.

We usually turn down applications when they are not production ready or have non-technical content on the website.

## Application process

To [apply][1] to the DocSearch program, follow the DocSearch onboarding process in the Algolia dashboard where you'll submit your domain for an automated validation check against our requirements. If your domain meets all criteria, you'll be quickly approved to proceed with creating your DocSearch crawler.

- ✅ Using one of our official integrations will streamline your implementation process after data ingestion.

- ✅ You must verify your domain ownership within 7 days of approval to continue using the crawler.

- ✅ Please review [DocSearch Plan Terms and Conditions][2]

## Process duration

DocSearch application process includes automated validation for faster processing. However, if we can't automatically determine your eligibility, we'll conduct a manual review that may take 1-2 business days.

Once approved, you can continue the onboarding process to create your DocSearch crawler. After your data is ingested into Algolia, you'll need to implement the search UI using either our provided code snippet or one of our [integrations][3]

[1]: https://dashboard.algolia.com/users/sign_up?selected_plan=docsearch
[2]: https://www.algolia.com/policies/docsearch-plan-specific-terms
[3]: integrations.md
