packages/website/README.md, before:

[![DocSearch][1]][2]

The easiest way to add search to your documentation. For free.

[![Netlify Status][3]][4]

Check out our [website][2] for a complete explanation and documentation.

# Installation

1. In the root of this repository (two level above this directory), do `yarn install` and `yarn build`
1. In this directory, do `yarn start`.
1. A browser window will open up, pointing to the docs.

# Deployment

Netlify handles the deployment of this website. If you are part of the DocSearch core team. [Access the Netlify Dashboard][11].

[1]: ./static/img/docsearch-logo.svg
[2]: https://docsearch.algolia.com/
[3]: https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/30eacc09-d4b2-4a53-879b-04d40aaea454/deploy-status
[4]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsearch/deploys
[6]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch
[7]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs
[8]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper
[9]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-website
[10]: https://v2.docusaurus.io/
[11]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsearch/overview

Commit message:

chore: migrate to from yarn, lerna and shipjs to bun & changesets

packages/website/README.md, after:

[![DocSearch][1]][2]

The easiest way to add search to your documentation. For free.

[![Netlify Status][3]][4]

Check out our [website][2] for a complete explanation and documentation.

# Installation

1. In the root of this repository (two levels above this directory), do `bun install` and `bun run build`
1. In this directory, do `bun run start`.
1. A browser window will open up, pointing to the docs.

# Deployment

Netlify handles the deployment of this website. If you are part of the DocSearch core team. [Access the Netlify Dashboard][11].

[1]: ./static/img/docsearch-logo.svg
[2]: https://docsearch.algolia.com/
[3]: https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/30eacc09-d4b2-4a53-879b-04d40aaea454/deploy-status
[4]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsearch/deploys
[6]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch
[7]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs
[8]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper
[9]: https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-website
[10]: https://v2.docusaurus.io/
[11]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsearch/overview
