packages/website/versioned_docs/version-legacy/faq.md, before:

---
title: FAQ
---

If you're not finding the answer to your question on this website, this page will help you. If you're still unsure, don't hesitate to send [your question to us][1] directly.

## What data are you collecting?

We save the data we extract from your website markup, which we put in a custom JSON format instead of HTML. This is the data we put in the Algolia DocSearch index. The selectors in your config define what data to scrape.

## Where is my data hosted?

We host the DocSearch data on Algolia's servers, with replications around the globe. You can find more details about the actual [server specs here][4], and more complete information in our [privacy policy][5].

## Can I use DocSearch on non-doc pages?

The free DocSearch we provide will crawl open-source documentation project pages or technical blog. To use it on other parts of your website, you'll need to create your own Algolia account and either:

- Run the [DocSearch crawler][6] on your own
- Use one of our other [framework integrations or API clients][7]

## Can you index code samples?

Yes, but we do not recommend it.

Code samples are a great way for humans to understand how people use a specific method. It often requires boilerplate code though, repeated across examples, which adds noise to the results.

What we recommend instead is to exclude the code blocks from the indexing (by using the `selectors_exclude` option in your config), and instead structure your content so the method names are present in the headers.

## Why do I have duplicate content in my results?

This can happen when you have more than one URL pointing to the same content, for example with `./docs`, `./docs/` and `./docs/index.html`.

You set the `stop_urls` to all the patterns you want to exclude. The following example will exclude all URLs ending with `/` or `index.html`

```json
{
  "stop_urls": ["/$", "/index.html$"]
}
```

## Why are custom changes from the Algolia dashboard ineffective?

Changing your settings from the dashboard might be something you want to do for some reasons.

Every successful crawl sets the DocSearch settings. These settings will be overridden at the next crawl. We **do not recommend you edit anything from the dashboard**. These changes come from the JSON configuration itself.

You can use the [custom_settings parameter][8] for this purpose.

## A documentation website I like does not use DocSearch. What can I do?

We'd love to help!

If one of your favorite tool documentation websites is missing DocSearch, we encourage you to file an issue in their repository explaining how DocSearch could help. Feel free to [send us an email][1] as well, and we'll provide all the help we can.

## How many records does the DocSearch crawl create?

The [`nb_hits` property][8] in your configuration keeps track of the number of records the crawl has extracted and indexed by the last DocSearch run. A crawl updates this number automatically.

The DocSearch scraper follows [the recommended atomic-reindexing strategy][9]. It creates a brand new temporary index to populate the data scraped from your website. When successful, the crawl overwrites the old index defined in your configuration with the key `index_name`.

## Why aren't my pages indexed?

We are scraping your website according to your configuration. It might happen that some pages are missing from the search. Some possible reasons are:

- Make sure you are not filtering on the search by wrongly using `facetFilters`. [See here for more details][10].
- Make sure that an other indexed page references the page missing with an hyperlink tag `<a/>`.
- Make sure you are [providing a compliant sitemap from the configuration][11] and that it references the page.

## How did we build this website?

We build this website with [Docusaurus v2][12]. We were helped by a great man who inspired us a lot, Endi. We want [to pay a tribute to this exceptional human being that will be always part of the DocSearch project][13]. Rest in peace mate!

## What is the timeline on the v3?

We are pre-releasing the v3 on Docusaurus 2. It will help us to iterate faster on it and make sure we are ready to release a vanilla version. We will provide a migration guide to help you move on this new version. If you want to have more information on this version, you can [watch the search party we made about this topic][16].

## Can I share the `apiKey` in my repo?

The `apiKey` the DocSearch team provides is [a search-only key][17] and can be safely shared publicly. You can track it in your version control system (for example Git). If you are running the scraper on your own, please make sure to create a search-only key and [do not share your Admin key][18].

[1]: mailto:docsearch@algolia.com
[4]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/infrastructure/servers/
[5]: https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy
[6]: /docs/legacy/run-your-own
[7]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/
[8]: /docs/legacy/config-file
[9]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/sending-and-managing-data/send-and-update-your-data/in-depth/asynchronicity-and-when-to-wait-for-tasks/#atomic-reindexing
[10]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/facetFilters/
[11]: tips.md
[12]: https://docusaurus.io/
[13]: https://docusaurus.io/blog/2020/01/07/tribute-to-endi
[16]: https://youtu.be/OXRjnG7SHJM
[17]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/security/api-keys/#search-only-api-key
[18]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/security/api-keys/#admin-api-key

Commit message:

fix(email): docsearch@algolia.com is being retired
This is a change by support (this email goes to support and automatically creates a ticket), support is no longer accepting ticket creation via email. Replacing with links to Discord or proper support site. More info can be found at https://algolia.atlassian.net/browse/ZA-268

packages/website/versioned_docs/version-legacy/faq.md, after:

---
title: FAQ
---

If you're not finding the answer to your question on this website, this page will help you. If you're still unsure, don't hesitate to connect with us on [Discord][1] or let our [support][19] team know.

## What data are you collecting?

We save the data we extract from your website markup, which we put in a custom JSON format instead of HTML. This is the data we put in the Algolia DocSearch index. The selectors in your config define what data to scrape.

## Where is my data hosted?

We host the DocSearch data on Algolia's servers, with replications around the globe. You can find more details about the actual [server specs here][4], and more complete information in our [privacy policy][5].

## Can I use DocSearch on non-doc pages?

The free DocSearch we provide will crawl open-source documentation project pages or technical blog. To use it on other parts of your website, you'll need to create your own Algolia account and either:

- Run the [DocSearch crawler][6] on your own
- Use one of our other [framework integrations or API clients][7]

## Can you index code samples?

Yes, but we do not recommend it.

Code samples are a great way for humans to understand how people use a specific method. It often requires boilerplate code though, repeated across examples, which adds noise to the results.

What we recommend instead is to exclude the code blocks from the indexing (by using the `selectors_exclude` option in your config), and instead structure your content so the method names are present in the headers.

## Why do I have duplicate content in my results?

This can happen when you have more than one URL pointing to the same content, for example with `./docs`, `./docs/` and `./docs/index.html`.

You set the `stop_urls` to all the patterns you want to exclude. The following example will exclude all URLs ending with `/` or `index.html`

```json
{
  "stop_urls": ["/$", "/index.html$"]
}
```

## Why are custom changes from the Algolia dashboard ineffective?

Changing your settings from the dashboard might be something you want to do for some reasons.

Every successful crawl sets the DocSearch settings. These settings will be overridden at the next crawl. We **do not recommend you edit anything from the dashboard**. These changes come from the JSON configuration itself.

You can use the [custom_settings parameter][8] for this purpose.

## A documentation website I like does not use DocSearch. What can I do?

We'd love to help!

If one of your favorite tool documentation websites is missing DocSearch, we encourage you to file an issue in their repository explaining how DocSearch could help. Feel free to [send us an email][1] as well, and we'll provide all the help we can.

## How many records does the DocSearch crawl create?

The [`nb_hits` property][8] in your configuration keeps track of the number of records the crawl has extracted and indexed by the last DocSearch run. A crawl updates this number automatically.

The DocSearch scraper follows [the recommended atomic-reindexing strategy][9]. It creates a brand new temporary index to populate the data scraped from your website. When successful, the crawl overwrites the old index defined in your configuration with the key `index_name`.

## Why aren't my pages indexed?

We are scraping your website according to your configuration. It might happen that some pages are missing from the search. Some possible reasons are:

- Make sure you are not filtering on the search by wrongly using `facetFilters`. [See here for more details][10].
- Make sure that an other indexed page references the page missing with an hyperlink tag `<a/>`.
- Make sure you are [providing a compliant sitemap from the configuration][11] and that it references the page.

## How did we build this website?

We build this website with [Docusaurus v2][12]. We were helped by a great man who inspired us a lot, Endi. We want [to pay a tribute to this exceptional human being that will be always part of the DocSearch project][13]. Rest in peace mate!

## What is the timeline on the v3?

We are pre-releasing the v3 on Docusaurus 2. It will help us to iterate faster on it and make sure we are ready to release a vanilla version. We will provide a migration guide to help you move on this new version. If you want to have more information on this version, you can [watch the search party we made about this topic][16].

## Can I share the `apiKey` in my repo?

The `apiKey` the DocSearch team provides is [a search-only key][17] and can be safely shared publicly. You can track it in your version control system (for example Git). If you are running the scraper on your own, please make sure to create a search-only key and [do not share your Admin key][18].

[1]: https://alg.li/discord
[4]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/infrastructure/servers/
[5]: https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy
[6]: /docs/legacy/run-your-own
[7]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/
[8]: /docs/legacy/config-file
[9]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/sending-and-managing-data/send-and-update-your-data/in-depth/asynchronicity-and-when-to-wait-for-tasks/#atomic-reindexing
[10]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-parameters/facetFilters/
[11]: tips.md
[12]: https://docusaurus.io/
[13]: https://docusaurus.io/blog/2020/01/07/tribute-to-endi
[16]: https://youtu.be/OXRjnG7SHJM
[17]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/security/api-keys/#search-only-api-key
[18]: https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/security/api-keys/#admin-api-key
[19]: https://support.algolia.com/
