packages/website/versioned_docs/version-legacy/how-do-we-build-an-index.mdx, before:

---
title: How do we build a DocSearch index?
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

In this section you will learn how we build a DocSearch index from your page.

## Everything starts from your page

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_1.png')}
  alt="1st step"
/>

## We extract the payload with to your set of `selectors`

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_2.png')}
  alt="2nd step"
/>

We will focus on the highlighted information depending on your selectors.

## We iterate through the HTML flow and build the payload

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_3.png')}
  alt="3rd step"
/>

This payload will be the only data extracted from your page.

## We iterate through the payload and start pushing records

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_4.png')}
  alt="4th step"
/>

We index the temporary record when we add an element to it (if `min_indexed_level` equals `0`)

## We pile up the elements based on the current temporary record

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_5.png')}
  alt="5th step"
/>

Based on the position within the flow, we nest elements as much as possible to keep the context and increase the relevancy.

## We iterate until we match a `text` element

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_6.png')}
  alt="6th step"
/>

## We override the text element when we find a newer one

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_7.png')}
  alt="7th step"
/>

## We remove the stashed, deeper elements when we add a higher level

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_8.png')}
  alt="8th step"
/>

Contextual information and hierarchy must be updated once we encounter a new level. We are doing that because it highlights a new sub-section not related to the previous one.

If you need any further information, please [contact us][1].

[1]: mailto:docsearch@algolia.com

Commit message:

fix(email): docsearch@algolia.com is being retired (#2280)
This is a change by support (this email goes to support and automatically creates a ticket), support is no longer accepting ticket creation via email. Replacing with links to Discord or proper support site. More info can be found at https://algolia.atlassian.net/browse/ZA-268

packages/website/versioned_docs/version-legacy/how-do-we-build-an-index.mdx, after:

---
title: How do we build a DocSearch index?
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

In this section you will learn how we build a DocSearch index from your page.

## Everything starts from your page

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_1.png')}
  alt="1st step"
/>

## We extract the payload with to your set of `selectors`

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_2.png')}
  alt="2nd step"
/>

We will focus on the highlighted information depending on your selectors.

## We iterate through the HTML flow and build the payload

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_3.png')}
  alt="3rd step"
/>

This payload will be the only data extracted from your page.

## We iterate through the payload and start pushing records

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_4.png')}
  alt="4th step"
/>

We index the temporary record when we add an element to it (if `min_indexed_level` equals `0`)

## We pile up the elements based on the current temporary record

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_5.png')}
  alt="5th step"
/>

Based on the position within the flow, we nest elements as much as possible to keep the context and increase the relevancy.

## We iterate until we match a `text` element

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_6.png')}
  alt="6th step"
/>

## We override the text element when we find a newer one

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_7.png')}
  alt="7th step"
/>

## We remove the stashed, deeper elements when we add a higher level

<img
  src={useBaseUrl('img/build_index/how_do_we_build_docsearch_index_8.png')}
  alt="8th step"
/>

Contextual information and hierarchy must be updated once we encounter a new level. We are doing that because it highlights a new sub-section not related to the previous one.

If you need any further information, please connect with us on [Discord][1] or let our [support][2] team know.

[1]: https://alg.li/discord
[2]: https://support.algolia.com/
